CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to hug
=========
Looking for a growing and useful open source project to contribute to?
Want your contributions to be warmly welcomed and acknowledged?
Want a free project t-shirt to show you're a contributor?
Welcome! You have found the right place.

hug is growing quickly and needs awesome contributors like *you* to help the project reach its full potential.
From reporting issues, writing documentation, implementing new features, fixing bugs and creating logos to providing additional usage examples - any contribution you can provide will be greatly appreciated and acknowledged.

Getting hug set up for local development
=========
The first step when contributing to any project is getting it set up on your local machine. hug aims to make this as simple as possible.

Account Requirements:

- [A valid GitHub account](https://github.com/join)

Base System Requirements:

- Python3.3+
- Python3-venv (included with most Python3 installations but some Ubuntu systems require that it be installed separately)
- bash or a bash compatible shell (should be auto-installed on Linux / Mac)
- [autoenv](https://github.com/kennethreitz/autoenv) (optional)

Once you have verified that you system matches the base requirements you can start to get the project working by following these steps:

1. [Fork the project on GitHub](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/fork).
2. Clone your fork to your local file system:
    `git clone https://github.com/$GITHUB_ACCOUNT/hug.git`
3. `cd hug`
    - If you have autoenv set-up correctly, simply press Y and then wait for the environment to be set up for you.
    - If you don't have autoenv set-up, run `source .env` to set up the local environment. You will need to run this script every time you want to work on the project - though it will not cause the entire set up process to re-occur.
4. Run `test` to verify your everything is set up correctly. If the tests all pass, you have successfully set up hug for local development! If not, you can ask for help diagnosing the error [here](https://gitter.im/timothycrosley/hug).

Making a contribution
=========
Congrats! You're now ready to make a contribution! Use the following as a guide to help you reach a successful pull-request:

1. Check the [issues page](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/issues) on GitHub to see if the task you want to complete is listed there.
    - If it's listed there, write a comment letting others know you are working on it.
    - If it's not listed in GitHub issues, go ahead and log a new issue. Then add a comment letting everyone know you have it under control.
        - If you're not sure if it's something that is good for the main hug project and want immediate feedback, you can discuss it [here](https://gitter.im/timothycrosley/hug).
2. Create an issue branch for your local work `git checkout -b issue/$ISSUE-NUMBER`.
3. Do your magic here.
4. Run `clean` to automatically sort your imports according to pep-8 guidelines.
5. Ensure your code matches hug's latest coding standards defined [here](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/CODING_STANDARD.md). It's important to focus to focus on making your code efficient as hug is used as a base framework for several performance critical APIs.
7. Submit a pull request to the main project repository via GitHub.

Thanks for the contribution! It will quickly get reviewed, and, once accepted, will result in your name being added to the ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS.md list :).

Getting a free t-shirt
=========
![hug t-shirt](https://raw.github.com/timothycrosley/hug/develop/artwork/t-shirt.png)

Once you have finished contributing to the project, send your mailing address and shirt size to timothy.crosley@gmail.com, with the title hug Shirt for @$GITHUB_USER_NAME.

When the project has reached 100 contributors, I will be sending every one of the original hundred contributors a t-shirt to commemorate their awesome work.

Thank you!
=========
I can not tell you how thankful I am for the hard work done by hug contributors like you. hug could not be the exciting and useful framework it is today without your help.

Thank you!

~Timothy Crosley

Commit message:

Documented the `--without-cython` installation option

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to hug
=========
Looking for a growing and useful open source project to contribute to?
Want your contributions to be warmly welcomed and acknowledged?
Want a free project t-shirt to show you're a contributor?
Welcome! You have found the right place.

hug is growing quickly and needs awesome contributors like *you* to help the project reach its full potential.
From reporting issues, writing documentation, implementing new features, fixing bugs and creating logos to providing additional usage examples - any contribution you can provide will be greatly appreciated and acknowledged.

Getting hug set up for local development
=========
The first step when contributing to any project is getting it set up on your local machine. hug aims to make this as simple as possible.

Account Requirements:

- [A valid GitHub account](https://github.com/join)

Base System Requirements:

- Python3.3+
- Python3-venv (included with most Python3 installations but some Ubuntu systems require that it be installed separately)
- bash or a bash compatible shell (should be auto-installed on Linux / Mac)
- [autoenv](https://github.com/kennethreitz/autoenv) (optional)

Once you have verified that you system matches the base requirements you can start to get the project working by following these steps:

1. [Fork the project on GitHub](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/fork).
2. Clone your fork to your local file system:
    `git clone https://github.com/$GITHUB_ACCOUNT/hug.git`
3. `cd hug`
    - If you have autoenv set-up correctly, simply press Y and then wait for the environment to be set up for you.
    - If you don't have autoenv set-up, run `source .env` to set up the local environment. You will need to run this script every time you want to work on the project - though it will not cause the entire set up process to re-occur.
4. Run `test` to verify your everything is set up correctly. If the tests all pass, you have successfully set up hug for local development! If not, you can ask for help diagnosing the error [here](https://gitter.im/timothycrosley/hug).

At step 3, you can skip using autoenv and the `.env` script,
and create your development virtul environment manually instead
using e.g. [`python3 -m venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)
or `mkvirtualenv` (from [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)).

Install dependencies by running `pip install -r requirements/release.txt`,
and optional build or development dependencies
by running `pip install -r requirements/build.txt`
or `pip install -r requirements/build.txt`.

Install Hug itself with `pip install .` or `pip install -e .` (for editable mode).
This will compile all modules with [Cython](https://cython.org/) if it's installed in the environment.
You can skip Cython compilation using `pip install --without-cython .` (this works with `-e` as well).

Making a contribution
=========
Congrats! You're now ready to make a contribution! Use the following as a guide to help you reach a successful pull-request:

1. Check the [issues page](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/issues) on GitHub to see if the task you want to complete is listed there.
    - If it's listed there, write a comment letting others know you are working on it.
    - If it's not listed in GitHub issues, go ahead and log a new issue. Then add a comment letting everyone know you have it under control.
        - If you're not sure if it's something that is good for the main hug project and want immediate feedback, you can discuss it [here](https://gitter.im/timothycrosley/hug).
2. Create an issue branch for your local work `git checkout -b issue/$ISSUE-NUMBER`.
3. Do your magic here.
4. Run `clean` to automatically sort your imports according to pep-8 guidelines.
5. Ensure your code matches hug's latest coding standards defined [here](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/CODING_STANDARD.md). It's important to focus to focus on making your code efficient as hug is used as a base framework for several performance critical APIs.
7. Submit a pull request to the main project repository via GitHub.

Thanks for the contribution! It will quickly get reviewed, and, once accepted, will result in your name being added to the ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS.md list :).

Getting a free t-shirt
=========
![hug t-shirt](https://raw.github.com/timothycrosley/hug/develop/artwork/t-shirt.png)

Once you have finished contributing to the project, send your mailing address and shirt size to timothy.crosley@gmail.com, with the title hug Shirt for @$GITHUB_USER_NAME.

When the project has reached 100 contributors, I will be sending every one of the original hundred contributors a t-shirt to commemorate their awesome work.

Thank you!
=========
I can not tell you how thankful I am for the hard work done by hug contributors like you. hug could not be the exciting and useful framework it is today without your help.

Thank you!

~Timothy Crosley
