FAQ.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions about Hug

For more examples, check out Hug's [documentation](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/tree/develop/documentation) and [examples](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/tree/develop/examples) Github directories, and its [website](http://www.hug.rest/).

## General Questions

Q: *Can I use Hug with a web framework -- Django for example?*

A: You can use Hug alongside Django or the web framework of your choice, but it does have drawbacks. You would need to run hug on a separate, hug-exclusive server. You can also [mount Hug as a WSGI app](https://pythonhosted.org/django-wsgi/embedded-apps.html), embedded within your normal Django app. 

Q: *Is Hug compatabile with Python 2?*

A: Python 2 is not supported by Hug. However, if you need to account for backwards compatability, there are workarounds. For example, you can wrap the decorators: 

```Python 
def my_get_fn(func, *args, **kwargs):
    if 'hug' in globals():
        return hug.get(func, *args, **kwargs)
    return func
```

## Technical Questions

Q: *I need to ensure the security of my data. Can Hug be used over HTTPS?*

A: Not directly, but you can utilize [uWSGI](https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) with nginx to transmit sensitive data. HTTPS is not part of the standard WSGI application layer, so you must use a WSGI HTTP server (such as uWSGI) to run in production. With this setup, Nginx handles SSL connections, and transfers requests to uWSGI.

Q:  *How can I serve static files from a directory using Hug?*

A: For a static HTML page, you can just set the proper output format as: `output=hug.output_format.html`. To see other examples, check out the [html_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/html_serve.py) example, the [image_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/image_serve.py) example, and the more general [static_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/static_serve.py) example within `hug/examples`.

Most basic examples will use a format that looks something like this: 

```Python
@hug.static('/static')
￼def my_static_dirs():
￼    return('/home/www/path-to-static-dir')
```

Q: *Does Hug support autoreloading?*

A: Hug supports any WSGI server that uses autoreloading, for example Gunicorn and uWSGI. The scripts for initializing autoreload for them are, respectively:

Gunicorn: `gunicorn --reload app:__hug_wsgi__`
uWSGI: `--py-autoreload 1 --http :8000 -w app:__hug_wsgi__`

Q: *How can I access a list of my routes?*

A: You can access a list of your routes by using the routes object on the HTTP API:

`__hug_wsgi__.http.routes`

It will return to you a structure of "base_url -> url -> HTTP method -> Version -> Python Handler". Therefore, for example, if you have no base_url set and you want to see the list of all URLS, you could run: 

`__hug_wsgi__.http.routes[''].keys()`

Q: *How can I configure a unique 404 route?*

A: By default, Hug will call `documentation_404()` if no HTTP route is found. However, if you want to configure other options (such as routing to a directiory, or routing everything else to a landing page) you can use the `@hug.sink('/')` decorator to create a "catch-all" route:

```Python 
import hug

@hug.sink('/all')
def my_sink(request):
    return request.path.replace('/all', '')
```

For more information, check out the ROUTING.md file within the `hug/documentation` directory.

Commit message:

Add initial documentation around CORS usage

FAQ.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions about Hug

For more examples, check out Hug's [documentation](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/tree/develop/documentation) and [examples](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/tree/develop/examples) Github directories, and its [website](http://www.hug.rest/).

## General Questions

Q: *Can I use Hug with a web framework -- Django for example?*

A: You can use Hug alongside Django or the web framework of your choice, but it does have drawbacks. You would need to run hug on a separate, hug-exclusive server. You can also [mount Hug as a WSGI app](https://pythonhosted.org/django-wsgi/embedded-apps.html), embedded within your normal Django app.

Q: *Is Hug compatabile with Python 2?*

A: Python 2 is not supported by Hug. However, if you need to account for backwards compatability, there are workarounds. For example, you can wrap the decorators:

```Python
def my_get_fn(func, *args, **kwargs):
    if 'hug' in globals():
        return hug.get(func, *args, **kwargs)
    return func
```

## Technical Questions

Q: *I need to ensure the security of my data. Can Hug be used over HTTPS?*

A: Not directly, but you can utilize [uWSGI](https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) with nginx to transmit sensitive data. HTTPS is not part of the standard WSGI application layer, so you must use a WSGI HTTP server (such as uWSGI) to run in production. With this setup, Nginx handles SSL connections, and transfers requests to uWSGI.

Q:  *How can I serve static files from a directory using Hug?*

A: For a static HTML page, you can just set the proper output format as: `output=hug.output_format.html`. To see other examples, check out the [html_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/html_serve.py) example, the [image_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/image_serve.py) example, and the more general [static_serve](https://github.com/timothycrosley/hug/blob/develop/examples/static_serve.py) example within `hug/examples`.

Most basic examples will use a format that looks something like this:

```Python
@hug.static('/static')
￼def my_static_dirs():
￼    return('/home/www/path-to-static-dir')
```

Q: *Does Hug support autoreloading?*

A: Hug supports any WSGI server that uses autoreloading, for example Gunicorn and uWSGI. The scripts for initializing autoreload for them are, respectively:

Gunicorn: `gunicorn --reload app:__hug_wsgi__`
uWSGI: `--py-autoreload 1 --http :8000 -w app:__hug_wsgi__`

Q: *How can I access a list of my routes?*

A: You can access a list of your routes by using the routes object on the HTTP API:

`__hug_wsgi__.http.routes`

It will return to you a structure of "base_url -> url -> HTTP method -> Version -> Python Handler". Therefore, for example, if you have no base_url set and you want to see the list of all URLS, you could run:

`__hug_wsgi__.http.routes[''].keys()`

Q: *How can I configure a unique 404 route?*

A: By default, Hug will call `documentation_404()` if no HTTP route is found. However, if you want to configure other options (such as routing to a directiory, or routing everything else to a landing page) you can use the `@hug.sink('/')` decorator to create a "catch-all" route:

```Python
import hug

@hug.sink('/all')
def my_sink(request):
    return request.path.replace('/all', '')
```

For more information, check out the ROUTING.md file within the `hug/documentation` directory.

Q: *How can I enable CORS*

A: There are many solutions depending on the specifics of your application.
For most applications, you can use the included cors middleware:

```
import hug

api = hug.API(__name__)
api.http.add_middleware(hug.middleware.CORSMiddleware(api, max_age=10))


@hug.get("/demo")
def get_demo():
    return {"result": "Hello World"}
```
For cases that are more complex then the middleware handles

[This comment]([https://github.com/hugapi/hug/issues/114#issuecomment-342493165]) (and the discussion around it) give a good starting off point.
